Performance guideline missing changes (#3483)
ROCm-Developer-Tools/HIP: docs/how-to/performance_guidelines.rst

.. meta::
  :description: This chapter describes a set of best practices designed to help
   developers optimize the performance of HIP-capable GPU architectures.
  :keywords: AMD, ROCm, HIP, CUDA, performance, guidelines

*******************************************************************************
Performance guidelines
*******************************************************************************

The AMD HIP performance guidelines are a set of best practices designed to help

> you optimize the application performance on AMD GPUs. The guidelines discuss

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you optimize the application performance on AMDGPUs. The guidelines discuss
```

Author: I think this is two separate word. It's trigger me and in one word direct my attention to these meanings: https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/AMDGPU 

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/AMDgpu_(Linux_kernel_module)

Are you sure, we can't keep it separately?

Reviewer: AMDGPU is the standard.

each multiprocessor on a device. The key to multiprocessor level optimization
is to efficiently utilize the various functional units within a multiprocessor.
For example, ensuring a sufficient number of resident warps, so that every clock
cycle has an instruction from a warp is ready for execution. This instruction could
either be another independent instruction of the same warp, which exploits
:ref:`instruction level optimization <instruction-level parallelism>`, or more
commonly an instruction of another warp, which exploits thread-level parallelism.

On the other hand, device level optimization focuses on the device as a whole,
aiming at keeping all multiprocessors busy by executing enough kernels
concurrently. Both multiprocessor and device levels of optimization are crucial for achieving maximum
performance. They work together to ensure efficient utilization of the
GPU resources, ranging from individual multiprocessors to the device as a
whole.

.. _memory optimization:
Memory throughput optimization
===============================

The first step in maximizing memory throughput is to minimize low-bandwidth
data transfers between the host and the device.

> Additionally, maximize the use of on-chip memory, that is, shared memory and caches, and minimize transfers with global memory. Shared memory acts as a user-managed cache explicitly allocated and accessed by the application. A common programming pattern is to stage data from device memory into shared memory. The staging of data from the device to shared memory involves:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, maximize the use of on-chip memory, that is, shared memory and caches, and minimize transfers with global memory. Shared memory acts as a user-managed cache explicitly allocated and accessed by the application. A common programming pattern is to stage data from device memory into shared memory. The staging of data from the device to shared memory involves the following steps:
```

1. Each thread of a block loading data from device memory to shared memory.
2. Synchronizing with all other threads of the block.
3. Processing the data stored in shared memory.
4. Synchronizing again if necessary.

> 5. Writing the results back to the device global memory.

Reviewer: These don't display on new lines. Please make the changes.

Author: Fixed.

For some applications, a traditional hardware-managed cache is more appropriate
for exploiting data locality.

In conclusion, the throughput of memory accesses by a kernel can vary significantly
depending on the access pattern. Therefore, the next step in maximizing memory
throughput is to organize memory accesses as optimally as possible. This is
especially important for global memory accesses, as global memory bandwidth is
low compared to available on-chip bandwidths and arithmetic instruction
throughput. Thus, non-optimal global memory accesses generally have a high
impact on performance.
The memory throughput optimization techniques are further discussed in detail in the following sections.

.. _data transfer:

> Data Transfer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data transfer
```

aiming at keeping all multiprocessors busy by executing enough kernels
concurrently. Both multiprocessor and device levels of optimization are crucial for achieving maximum
performance. They work together to ensure efficient utilization of the
GPU resources, ranging from individual multiprocessors to the device as a
whole.

.. _memory optimization:
Memory throughput optimization
===============================

The first step in maximizing memory throughput is to minimize low-bandwidth
data transfers between the host and the device.

Additionally, maximize the use of on-chip memory, that is, shared memory and caches, and minimize transfers with global memory. Shared memory acts as a user-managed cache explicitly allocated and accessed by the application. A common programming pattern is to stage data from device memory into shared memory. The staging of data from the device to shared memory involves the following steps:

1. Each thread of a block loading data from device memory to shared memory.
2. Synchronizing with all other threads of the block.
3. Processing the data stored in shared memory.
4. Synchronizing again if necessary.

> 5. Writing the results back to the device global memory.

Reviewer: This numbered list doesn't seem to be rendered well. Could you please check this out. It looks like a list with numbers but not a numbered list.

Author: For me, this is rendered:

<img width="821" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b383f1a1-e5b7-4eb1-8103-e2a7d2df93b5">

Reviewer: Ok

.. meta::
  :description: This chapter describes a set of best practices designed to help
   developers optimize the performance of HIP-capable GPU architectures.
  :keywords: AMD, ROCm, HIP, CUDA, performance, guidelines

*******************************************************************************

> Performance Guidelines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Performance guidelines
```

*******************************************************************************

> The AMD HIP Performance Guidelines are a set of best practices designed to help

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AMD HIP performance guidelines are a set of best practices designed to help
```

developers optimize the performance of their codes for AMD GPUs. They cover
established parallelization and optimization techniques that can greatly

> improving performance for HIP-capable GPU architectures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you optimize the application performance on AMDGPUs. The guidelines discuss
established parallelization and optimization techniques to improve the application performance on HIP-capable GPU architectures.
```

By following four main cornerstones, we can exploit the performance

> optimization potential of HIP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are the four main cornerstones to help you exploit HIP's performance
optimization potential:
```

> - parallel execution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Parallel execution
```

- memory bandwidth usage optimization
- optimization for maximum throughput

> - minimizing memory thrashing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Memory bandwidth usage optimization
- Maximum throughput optimization
- Memory thrashing minimization
```

Author: Commited.

In the following chapters, we will show you their benefits and how to use them

> effectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document discusses the usage and benefits of these cornerstones in detail.
```

.. _parallel execution:
Parallel execution
====================

For optimal use, the application should reveal and efficiently provide as much

> parallelism as possible to keep all system components busy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For optimal use and to keep all system components busy, the application must reveal and efficiently provide as much parallelism as possible.
The parallelism can be performed at the application level, device level, and multiprocessor level.
```

Author: Commited.

Application level
-------------------

The application should optimize parallel execution across the host and devices
using asynchronous calls and streams. Workloads should be assigned based on

> efficiency: serial to the host, parallel to the devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable parallel execution of the application across the host and devices, use asynchronous calls and streams. Assign workloads based on efficiency: serial to the host or parallel to the devices.
```

> For parallel workloads, when threads need to synchronize to share data, if they

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For parallel workloads, when threads belonging to the same block need to synchronize to share data,
```

belong to the same block, use ``__syncthreads()`` (see:
:ref:`synchronization functions`) within the same kernel invocation. If they
belong to different blocks, they must use global memory with two separate

> kernel invocations. The latter should be minimized as it adds overhead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
use ``__syncthreads()`` (see:
:ref:`synchronization functions`) within the same kernel invocation. For threads
belonging to different blocks, use global memory with two separate
kernel invocations. It is recommended to avoid the latter approach as it adds overhead.
```

Device level
--------------

Device level optimization primarily involves maximizing parallel execution
across the multiprocessors of the device. This can be achieved by executing

> multiple kernels concurrently on a device. The management of these kernels is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Device level optimization primarily involves maximizing parallel execution
across the multiprocessors on the device. You can achieve device level optimization by executing
multiple kernels concurrently on a device. To enhance performance, the management of these kernels is
```

> facilitated by streams, which allow for the overlapping of computation and data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
facilitated by streams, which allows overlapping of computation and data transfers. This approach aims at keeping all multiprocessors busy by executing enough kernels concurrently. However, launching too many kernels can lead to resource contention, hence a balance must be found for optimal performance. The device level optimization helps in achieving maximum utilization of
```
Remove line 53-56 (transfers, enhancing performance. The aim is to keep all multiprocessors busy
by executing enough kernels concurrently. However, launching too many kernels
can lead to resource contention, so a balance must be found for optimal
performance. This approach helps in achieving maximum utilization of the)

Author: Commited. Please check.

Reviewer: Looks good.

> resources of the device.

Reviewer: the device resources.

Author: Commited.

Multiprocessor level
----------------------

Multiprocessor level optimization involves maximizing parallel execution within
each multiprocessor on a device. The key to multiprocessor level optimization
is to efficiently utilize the various functional units within a multiprocessor.
For example ensure a sufficient number of resident warps, so that every clock
cycle an instruction from a warp is ready for execution. This instruction can
be another independent instruction of the same warp, exploiting
:ref:`instruction level optimization<instruction-level parallelism>`, or more

> commonly an instruction of another warp, exploiting thread-level parallelism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multiprocessor level optimization involves maximizing parallel execution within
each multiprocessor on a device. The key to multiprocessor level optimization
is to efficiently utilize the various functional units within a multiprocessor.
For example, ensuring a sufficient number of resident warps, so that every clock
cycle has an instruction from a warp is ready for execution. This instruction could
either be another independent instruction of the same warp, which exploits
:ref:`instruction level optimization <instruction-level parallelism>`, or more
commonly an instruction of another warp, which exploits thread-level parallelism.
```

> In comparison, device level optimization focuses on the device as a whole,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the other hand, device level optimization focuses on the device as a whole,
```

aiming to keep all multiprocessors busy by executing enough kernels
concurrently. Both levels of optimization are crucial for achieving maximum
performance. They work together to ensure efficient utilization of the
resources of the GPU, from the individual multiprocessors to the device as a

> whole.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
aiming at keeping all multiprocessors busy by executing enough kernels
concurrently. Both multiprocessor and device levels of optimization are crucial for achieving maximum
performance. They work together to ensure efficient utilization of the
GPU resources, ranging from individual multiprocessors to the device as a
whole.
```

.. _memory optimization:
Memory throughput optimization
===============================

The first step in maximizing memory throughput is to minimize low-bandwidth
data transfers between the host and the device.

Additionally loads from and stores to global memory should be minimized by
maximizing the use of on-chip memory: shared memory and caches. Shared memory
acts as a user-managed cache, where the application explicitly allocates and
accesses it. A common programming pattern is to stage data from device memory
into shared memory. This involves each thread of a block loading data from
device memory to shared memory, synchronizing with all other threads of the
block, processing the data which is stored in shared memory, synchronizing

> again if necessary, and writing the results back to device global memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, maximize the use of on-chip memory, that is, shared memory and caches, and minimize transfers with global memory. Shared memory acts as a user-managed cache explicitly allocated and accessed by the application. A common programming pattern is to stage data from device memory into shared memory. The staging of data from the device to shared memory involves:
1. Each thread of a block loading data from device memory to shared memory.
2. Synchronizing with all other threads of the block.
3. Processing the data stored in shared memory.
4. Synchronizing again if necessary.
5. Writing the results back to the device global memory.
```

For some applications, a traditional hardware-managed cache is more appropriate

> to exploit data locality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for exploiting data locality.
```

> Finally, the throughput of memory accesses by a kernel can vary significantly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In conclusion, the throughput of memory accesses by a kernel can vary significantly
```

depending on the access pattern. Therefore, the next step in maximizing memory
throughput is to organize memory accesses as optimally as possible. This is
especially important for global memory accesses, as global memory bandwidth is
low compared to available on-chip bandwidths and arithmetic instruction
throughput. Thus, non-optimal global memory accesses generally have a high
impact on performance.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The memory throughput optimization techniques are further discussed in detail in the following sections.
```

.. _data transfer:
Data Transfer
---------------

Applications should aim to minimize data transfers between the host and the

> device. This can be achieved by moving more computations from the host to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To minimize data transfers between the host and the device, applications should move more computations from the host to the device, even at the cost of running kernels that don't fully utilize parallelism for the device. Intermediate data structures should be created, used, and discarded in device memory without being mapped or copied to host memory.
```
If you accept this suggestion, then delete lines 111 to 113 as I have copied those lines in the suggestion.

Author: Commited. Please check.

Reviewer: Looks good.

memory or explicitly copy data between device and host memory. Data transfers
occur implicitly each time the kernel accesses the mapped memory. For optimal
performance, these memory accesses should be coalesced, similar to global
memory accesses. The process where threads in a warp access sequential memory locations is known as coalesced memory access, which can enhance memory data transfer efficiency.

On integrated systems where device and host memory are physically the same, no copy operation between host and device memory is required and hence mapped page-locked memory should be used instead. To check if the device is integrated, applications can query the integrated device property.

.. _device memory access:

> Device Memory Access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Device memory access
```

---------------------

Memory access instructions might be repeated due to the spread of memory
addresses across warp threads. The impact on throughput varies with memory type
and is generally reduced when addresses are more scattered, especially in
global memory.

Device memory is accessed via 32-, 64-, or 128-byte transactions that must be
naturally aligned. 
Maximizing memory throughput involves:
- Coalescing memory accesses of threads within a warp into minimal
transactions.
- Following optimal access patterns.
- Using properly sized and aligned data types.

> - Padding data when necessary.

Reviewer: These points don't appear on new lines. Please change.

Author: Fixed.

.. _control flow instructions:
Control flow instructions
---------------------------

Control flow instructions (``if``, ``else``, ``for``, ``do``, ``while``, ``break``, ``continue``, ``switch``) can impact instruction throughput by causing threads within a warp to diverge and follow different execution paths. To optimize performance, write control conditions to minimize divergent warps. For example, when the control condition depends on ``threadIdx`` or ``warpSize``, warp doesn't diverge. The compiler might optimize loops, short ifs, or switch blocks using branch predication, which prevents warp divergence. With branch predication, instructions associated with a false predicate are scheduled but not executed, which avoids unnecessary operations.

Avoiding divergent warps
..........................................................

Warps diverge when threads within the same warp follow different execution paths. This is caused by conditional statements that lead to different arithmetic operations being performed by different threads. Divergent warps can significantly reduce instruction throughput, so it is advisable to structure your code to minimize divergence.

> Synchronization

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Synchronization
```
I have added new line to it. Ensure that this heading is displayed properly.

----------------

> Synchronization ensures that all threads within a block complete their computations and memory accesses before moving forward, which is critical when threads depend on other thread results. However, synchronization can also lead to performance overhead, as it needs the threads to wait, which might lead to idle GPU resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Synchronization ensures that all threads within a block complete their computations and memory accesses before moving forward, which is critical when threads depend on other thread results. However, synchronization can also cause performance overhead, as it needs the threads to wait, which might lead to idle GPU resources.
```

To synchronize all threads in a block, use ``__syncthreads()``. ``__syncthreads()`` ensures
that, all threads reach the same point in the code and can access shared memory after reaching that point.

> is visible to all threads after the point of synchronization.

Reviewer: remove this line

Author: Removed.

An alternative way to synchronize is to use streams. Different streams can execute commands either without following a specific order or concurrently. This is why streams allow more fine-grained control over the execution order of commands, which can be beneficial in certain scenarios.

Minimizing memory thrashing
============================

Applications frequently allocating and freeing memory might experience slower allocation calls over time as memory is released back to the operating system. To optimize performance in such scenarios, follow these guidelines:

> - Avoid allocating all available memory with ``hipMalloc`` or ``hipHostMalloc``, as this immediately reserves memory and might prevent other applications from using it. This could strain the operating system schedulers or prevent other applications from running on the same GPU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Avoid allocating all available memory with ``hipMalloc`` or ``hipHostMalloc``, as this immediately reserves memory and might prevent other applications from using it. This behavior could strain the operating system schedulers or prevent other applications from running on the same GPU.
```

> - Try to allocate memory in suitably sized blocks early in the application's lifecycle and deallocate only when the application doesn't need it anymore. Minimize the number of ``hipMalloc`` and ``hipFree`` calls in your application, particularly in performance-critical areas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Try to allocate memory in suitably sized blocks early in the application's lifecycle and deallocate only when the application no longer needs it. Minimize the number of ``hipMalloc`` and ``hipFree`` calls in your application, particularly in performance-critical areas.
```

- Consider resorting to other memory types such as ``hipHostMalloc`` or ``hipMallocManaged``, if an application can't allocate sufficient device memory. While the other memory types might not offer similar performance, they allow the application to continue running.

> - For supported platforms, use ``hipMallocManaged``, as it allows oversubscription. With the right policies, ``hipMallocManaged`` can maintain most, if not all, ``hipMalloc`` performance. ``hipMallocManaged`` doesn't require an allocation to be resident until it is needed or prefetched, which eases the load on the operating system's schedulers and facilitates multi-tenant scenarios.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For supported platforms, use ``hipMallocManaged``, as it allows oversubscription. With the right policies, ``hipMallocManaged`` can maintain most, if not all, ``hipMalloc`` performance. ``hipMallocManaged`` doesn't require an allocation to be resident until it is needed or prefetched, which eases the load on the operating system's schedulers and facilitates multitenant scenarios.
```

memory or explicitly copy data between device and host memory. Data transfers
occur implicitly each time the kernel accesses the mapped memory. For optimal
performance, these memory accesses should be coalesced, similar to global
memory accesses. When threads in a warp access sequential memory locations, a
process known as coalesced memory access, it can enhance the efficiency of

> memory data transfer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
memory accesses. The process where threads in a warp access sequential memory locations is known as coalesced memory access, which can enhance memory data transfer efficiency.
```

On integrated systems where device and host memory are physically the same,
any copy operation between host and device memory is unnecessary, and mapped
page-locked memory should be used instead. Applications can check if a device

> is integrated by querying the integrated device property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On integrated systems where device and host memory are physically the same, no copy operation between host and device memory is required and hence mapped page-locked memory should be used instead. To check if the device is integrated, applications can query the integrated device property.
```

.. _device memory access:
Device Memory Access
---------------------

Memory access instructions may be repeated due to the spread of memory

> addresses across warp threads. The impact on throughput varies with memory type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Memory access instructions might be repeated due to the spread of memory
addresses across warp threads. The impact on throughput varies with memory type
```

Device memory is accessed via 32-, 64-, or 128-byte transactions that must be

> naturally aligned. Maximizing memory throughput involves coalescing memory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
naturally aligned. 
Maximizing memory throughput involves:
```

(see: :ref:`data transfer`) accesses of threads within a warp into minimal
transactions, following optimal access patterns, using properly sized and

> aligned data types, and padding data when necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Coalescing memory accesses of threads within a warp into minimal
transactions.
- Following optimal access patterns.
- Using properly sized and aligned data types.
- Padding data when necessary.
```

Global memory instructions support reading or writing data of specific sizes

> (1, 2, 4, 8, or 16 bytes) that are naturally aligned. If the size and alignment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Global memory instructions support reading or writing data of specific sizes (1, 2, 4, 8, or 16 bytes) that are naturally aligned. Not meeting the size and alignment requirements leads to multiple instructions, which reduces performance. Therefore, for correct results and optimal performance:
- Use data types that meet these requirements
- Ensure alignment for structures
- Maintain alignment for all values or arrays.
```
Delete lines 149 to 152 as I have included the information here.

Reviewer: Replace lines 161 to 167 with the following:
Local memory is used for certain automatic variables, such as arrays with non-constant indices, large structures of arrays, and any variable where the kernel uses more registers than available. Local memory resides in device memory, which leads to high latency and low bandwidth, similar to global memory accesses. However, the local memory is organized for consecutive 32-bit words to be accessed by consecutive thread IDs, which allows full coalescing when all threads in a warp access the same relative address.

Reviewer: Replace lines 169 to 174 with:

Shared memory is located on-chip and provides higher bandwidth and lower latency than local or global memory. It is divided into banks that can be simultaneously accessed, which boosts bandwidth. However, bank conflicts, where two addresses fall in the same bank, lead to serialized access and decreased throughput. Therefore, understanding how memory addresses map to banks and scheduling requests to minimize conflicts is crucial for optimal performance.

Reviewer: Replace lines 176 to 179 with:

Constant memory is in the device memory and cached in the constant cache. Requests are split based on different memory addresses and are
serviced based either on the throughput of the constant cache for cache hits or on the throughput of the device memory otherwise. This splitting of requests affects throughput.

Author: Commited. Please check.

> allocate it with a width rounded up to the nearest multiple and pad the rows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allocate the array with a width rounded up to the nearest multiple and pad the rows
```

- Data broadcasting.
- Optional conversion of 8-bit and 16-bit integer input data to 32-bit floating-point values on the fly.

.. _instruction optimization:
Optimization for maximum instruction throughput
=================================================

To maximize instruction throughput:

- Minimize low throughput arithmetic instructions.
- Minimize divergent warps inflicted by flow control instructions.
- Maximize instruction parallelism.

These techniques are discussed in detail in the following sections.

Arithmetic instructions
-------------------------

The type and complexity of arithmetic operations can significantly impact the
performance of your application. We are highlighting some hints how to maximize
it.

Use efficient operations: Some arithmetic operations are costlier than others. For example, multiplication is typically faster than division, and integer operations are usually faster than floating-point operations, especially with double precision.

Minimize low-throughput instructions: This might involve trading precision for speed when it does not affect the final result. For instance, consider using single-precision arithmetic instead of double-precision.

> Leverage intrinsic functions: Intrinsic functions are pre-defined functions available in HIP that can often be executed faster than equivalent arithmetic operations (subject to some input or accuracy restrictions). They can help optimize performance by replacing more complex arithmetic operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Leverage intrinsic functions: Intrinsic functions are predefined functions available in HIP that can often be executed faster than equivalent arithmetic operations (subject to some input or accuracy restrictions). They can help optimize performance by replacing more complex arithmetic operations.
```

> input data to 32-bit floating-point values on-the-fly.

Reviewer: Replace line 181 to 187 with:

Texture and surface memory are stored in the device memory and cached in the texture cache. This setup optimizes 2D spatial locality, which leads to better performance for threads reading close 2D addresses. 
Reading device memory through texture or surface fetching provides the following advantages:
- Higher bandwidth for local texture fetches or surface reads.
- Offloading addressing calculation.
- Data broadcasting.
- Optional conversion of 8-bit and 16-bit integer input data to 32-bit floating-point values on the fly.

Author: Commited.

.. _instruction optimization:
Optimization for maximum instruction throughput
=================================================

To maximize instruction throughput:

- minimize low throughput arithmetic instructions

> - minimize divergent warps inflicted by control flow instructions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To maximize instruction throughput:

- Minimize low throughput arithmetic instructions.
- Minimize divergent warps inflicted by flow control instructions.
```

> - maximize instruction parallelism

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Maximize instruction parallelism.

These techniques are discussed in detail in the following sections.
```

Arithmetic instructions
-------------------------

The type and complexity of arithmetic operations can significantly impact the

> performance of your application. We are highlighting some hints how to maximize

Reviewer: ```suggestion
performance of your application. Here are the techniques to maximize the performance:
```

Reviewer: Replace line 206 to 221 with:

Use efficient operations: Some arithmetic operations are costlier than others. For example, multiplication is typically faster than division, and integer operations are usually faster than floating-point operations, especially with double precision.
Minimize low-throughput instructions: This might involve trading precision for speed when it does not affect the final result. For instance, consider using single-precision arithmetic instead of double-precision.
Leverage intrinsic functions: Intrinsic functions are pre-defined functions available in HIP that can often be executed faster than equivalent arithmetic operations (subject to some input or accuracy restrictions). They can help optimize performance by replacing more complex arithmetic operations.
Optimize memory access: The memory access efficiency can impact the speed of arithmetic operations. See: :ref:`device memory access`.

Author: Fixed.

operations (subject to some input or accuracy restrictions). They can help
optimize performance by replacing more complex arithmetic operations.

Optimizing memory access: The efficiency of memory access can impact the speed
of arithmetic operations. See: :ref:`device memory access`.

.. _control flow instructions:

> Control flow instructions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flow control instructions
```

Author: We have to use control flow here. Also changed the first sentence of the section:

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Control_flow#:~:text=In%20computer%20science%2C%20control%20flow,from%20a%20declarative%20programming%20language.

Reviewer: ok

---------------------------

Flow control instructions (``if``, ``else``, ``for``, ``do``, ``while``,

> ``break``, ``continue``, ``switch``) can impact instruction throughput by

Reviewer: Replace lines 227 to 235 with:

Flow control instructions (if, else, for, do, while, break, continue, switch) can impact instruction throughput by causing threads within a warp to diverge and follow different execution paths. To optimize performance, write control conditions to minimize divergent warps. For example, when the control condition depends on threadIdx or warpSize, warp doesn't diverge. The compiler might optimize loops, short ifs, or switch blocks using branch predication, which prevents warp divergence. With branch predication, instructions associated with a false predicate are scheduled but not executed, which avoids unnecessary operations.

Author: Fixed.

divergence. With branch predication, instructions associated with a false
predicate are scheduled but not executed, avoiding unnecessary operations.

Avoiding divergent warps: Divergent warps occur when threads within the same
warp follow different execution paths. This can happen due to conditional
statements that lead to different arithmetic operations being performed by
different threads. Divergent warps can significantly reduce instruction
throughput, so try to structure your code to minimize divergence.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Avoiding divergent warps
..........................................................

Warps diverge when threads within the same warp follow different execution paths. This is caused by conditional statements that lead to different arithmetic operations being performed by different threads. Divergent warps can significantly reduce instruction throughput, so it is advisable to structure your code to minimize divergence.
```

Synchronization
----------------

Synchronization ensures that all threads within a block have completed their
computations and memory accesses before moving forward, which is critical when
threads depend on the results of other threads. However, synchronization can
also lead to performance overhead, as it requires threads to wait, potentially

> leading to idle GPU resources.

Reviewer: Replace line 246 to 250 with:

Synchronization ensures that all threads within a block complete their computations and memory accesses before moving forward, which is critical when threads depend on other thread results. However, synchronization can also lead to performance overhead, as it needs the threads to wait, which might lead to idle GPU resources.

Author: Fixed.

> ``__syncthreads()`` is used to synchronize all threads in a block, ensuring
> that all threads have reached the same point in the code and that shared memory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To synchronize all threads in a block, use ``__syncthreads()``. ``__syncthreads()`` ensures
that, all threads reach the same point in the code and can access shared memory after reaching that point.
```

> which can be beneficial in certain scenarios.

Reviewer: Replace lines 256 to 259 with:

An alternative way to synchronize is to use streams. Different streams can execute commands either without following a specific order or concurrently. This is why streams allow more fine-grained control over the execution order of commands, which can be beneficial in certain scenarios.

Author: Fixed.

Minimizing memory thrashing
============================

Applications frequently allocating and freeing memory may experience slower

> allocation calls over time. This is expected as memory is released back to the

Reviewer: Replace 264 to 285 with:
Applications frequently allocating and freeing memory might experience slower allocation calls over time as memory is released back to the operating system. To optimize performance in such scenarios, follow these guidelines:

- Avoid allocating all available memory with ``hipMalloc`` or ``hipHostMalloc``, as this immediately reserves memory and might prevent other applications from using it. This could strain the operating system schedulers or prevent other applications from running on the same GPU.
- Try to allocate memory in suitably sized blocks early in the application's lifecycle and deallocate only when the application doesn't need it anymore. Minimize the number of ``hipMalloc`` and ``hipFree`` calls in your application, particularly in performance-critical areas.
- Consider resorting to other memory types such as ``hipHostMalloc`` or ``hipMallocManaged``, if an application can't allocate sufficient device memory. While the other memory types might not offer similar performance, they allow the application to continue running.
- For supported platforms, use ``hipMallocManaged``, as it allows oversubscription. With the right policies, ``hipMallocManaged`` can maintain most, if not all, ``hipMalloc`` performance. ``hipMallocManaged`` doesn't require an allocation to be resident until it is needed or prefetched, which eases the load on the operating system's schedulers and facilitates multi-tenant scenarios.
